When you're ready to scale the number of pods in your deployment,
you'll use the kubectl scale deployment command.
For example, kubectl scale deployment, deployment name,
--replicas=, then the desired number of replicas,
in this case 3.
To scale the number of nodes, you'll use the eksctl scale nodegroup command,
passing in the name of the cluster, the desired number of nodes,
in this case 5, and the name of the node group to scale.
Your node pool will then scale to match the requested number of nodes.
We're going to scale the deployment up to three replicas.
We can run kubectl get pods to check the progress.
Notice that the two new pods have only been running a few seconds,
whereas the original pod has been up for a while longer.
If we hit the application, we'll see the original pod starting at 6,
and the two new pods are starting at 1.
We can also see the three pods distributed over the two nodes in our node pool.
To find the name of your node group, run eksctl get nodegroup,
then pass in the name of your cluster.
I'll scale the node group down to 1 using the eksctl scale nodegroup command.
Notice the age of the pods before we scaled the node pool.
When we reduced it to 1 and all three pods needed to be on the same node,
notice how two pods had to be created.
Let's scale the nodes up to 3.
Again, we'll use the eksctl scale nodegroup command.
Now we can see there are three nodes in the node pool.
Notice that the three pods are still running on the same node.
The default settings for rebalancing pods across nodes may vary
from provider to provider so be sure to understand that if you
have any special requirements.
To update the application you'll need to build and tag a new Docker image,
then push it to the repository.
In this example, we will create a new image for demo with a 2.0 tag,
then push it.
Once the image is in the repository,
you can use kubectl to set the demo image for the existing
demo-app deployment to the new 2.0 image.
Kubernetes will then automatically spin up new pods with the new image.
We'll change the message from Hello to Goodbye, then build the 2.0 image.
Once the image is built, we'll go ahead and push it to the repository.
Next, run kubectl set image to set the 2.0 image as the one we want to use.
If you run kubectl get pods,
you can see the three 1.0 versions terminating and
the three 2.0 versions running.
When we hit the application,
we can see the new message and that the counters have restarted. With the new deployment, the pods are distributed across the three nodes.